_pages/research.md, before:

---
title: Research
layout: single
author_profile: true
permalink: /research/
collection: research
entries_layout: grid
classes: wide
---

## Publications

-  **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2024). Aspectual processing shifts visual event apprehension. *Cognitive Science, 48*(6), e13476. [https://doi.org/10.1111/cogs.13476](https://doi.org/10.1111/cogs.13476)

- Li, C., Mowery, D. L., Ma, X., Yang, R., **Vurgun, U.**, Hwang, S., Donnelly, H. K., Bandhey, H., Akhtar, Z., Senathirajah, Y., Sadhu, E. M., Getzen, E., Freda, P. J., Long, Q., Becich, M. J. (2024). Realizing the potential of social determinants data: A scoping review of approaches for screening, linkage, extraction, analysis, and interventions. *Journal of Clinical and Translational Science*.

- **Vurgun, U.** (2019). <a href="/assets/images/Vurgun_2019_FocusParticles_TR.pdf">The syntax of focus particles in Turkish</a>. Unpublished master's thesis, Boğaziçi University. Advisors: Dr. H. Mine Nakipoğlu & Dr. A. Sumru Özsoy.

- **Vurgun, U.** (2018). <a href="/assets/images/bookreview.pdf">Book review</a> - Contemporary Morphological Theories: A User’s Guide. Thomas W. Stewart, 2015. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press. 192 pages. ISBN 978 07 486 9268 2. *Journal of Linguistic Research*, 29(2), 129-137.

## Conference Proceedings

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2025).  Mapping between telicity and event representations. Proceedings from the 47th Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society. 

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2024).  Detecting event construal shifts in aspectual coercion. Proceedings from the 46th Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society. 

- **Vurgun, U.**, Heesu, Y., Landau, B., & Trueswell, J. (2024).  Real-time processing of symmetrical predicates: Semantic categorization over time. Proceedings from the 46th Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society. 

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2023).  Cognitive signatures of aspectual coercion. Proceedings from the 45th Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society. 

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2022).  Linguistic aspect constrains event apprehension. Proceedings from the 44th Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society. 

## Presentations

-  Ketchem, C. J., **Vurgun, U.**, Wang, A., Thomas, S., Batugo, A., Falk, G. W., Lynch, K. L., Dellon, E. S., Mowery, D. L., & Lewis, J. D. (2025). Large language models combined with a single diagnostic code detect eosinophilic esophagitis in electronic health records with high accuracy. *American Journal of Gastroenterology*, Abstract P2739. Presented at the American College of Gastroenterology Annual Scientific Meeting, Phoenix, AZ.

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2025). Mapping between telicity and event representations. Poster presentation at the 47th Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society, San Francisco, California. 

-  **Vurgun, U.**, Cho, S., Fusaroli, R., Pelella, M. R., Knox, A., Hauptmann, A., Covello, M., Madya, M., Lyons, M., Lee, A., Fulop, L., Russell, A., Hicks, G., Fiumara, J., Pandey, J., Tunç, B., Sariyanidi, E., Liberman, M., Schultz, R. T., & Parish-Morris, J. (May, 2025). Sex-Specific Clustering in Autism: Implications for Female Identification and Assessment. Poster presentation at International Society for Autism Research Annual Meeting (INSAR 2025), Seattle, Washington.

-  Cho, S., **Vurgun, U.**, Fusaroli, R., Pelella, M. R., Knox, A., Hauptmann, A., Covello, M., Madya, M., Lyons, M., Lee, A., Fulop, L., Russell, A., Hicks, G., Fiumara, J., Pandey, J., Tunç, B., Sariyanidi, E., Liberman, M., Schultz, R. T., & Parish-Morris, J. (May, 2025). "Taking the temperature" of natural conversations in Autism plus ADHD: a trans diagnostic sentiment analysis. Poster presentation at International Society for Autism Research Annual Meeting (INSAR 2025), Seattle, Washington. 

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2025). (A)telic Diversity: Evidence from a Novel Meaning Categorization Task. Poster presentation at the 38th Annual Conference on Human Sentence Processing, University of Maryland, College Park, USA.

- **Vurgun, U.**, Kaviyarasu, A., Hwang, S., Acevedo, A., Abella, B. S., Mitchell, O., & Mowery, D. L. (2024). Reliability in AI-assisted critical care: Assessing large language model robustness and instruction following for cardiac arrest identification. AIM-FM: Advancements In Medical Foundation Models: Explainability, Robustness, Security, and Beyond Workshop. 38th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2024).

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2024).  Detecting event construal shifts in aspectual coercion. Oral presentation at the 46th Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society, Rotterdam, Netherlands. 

- **Vurgun, U.**, Heesu, Y., Landau, B., & Trueswell, J. (2024).  Real-time processing of symmetrical predicates: Semantic categorization over time. Poster presentation at the 46th Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society, Rotterdam, Netherlands. 

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2024). Aspectual Coercion: A New Method to Probe Aspectual Commitments. Oral presentation at the Experiments in Linguistic Meaning (ELM) Conference, University of Pennsylvania.

- Kaviyarasu, A., **Vurgun, U.**, Hwang, S., Acevedo, A., Mowery, D. L., Abella, B. S., & Mitchell, O. J. L. (2024). Leveraging large language models to optimize clinical text analysis for in-hospital cardiac arrest identification. Poster presentation at the Department of Medicine Research Day, University of Pennsylvania.

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2024). Aspectual Coercion: A New Method to Probe Aspectual Commitments. Poster presentation at the 37th Annual Conference on Human Sentence Processing, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.

- **Vurgun, U.**, Yun, H., Landau, B., & Trueswell, J. (2024). Symmetrical or not?: A new method to probe real-time semantic categorization. Poster presentation at the 37th Annual Conference on Human Sentence Processing, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2024). Cognitive signatures of aspectual coercion. Poster presentation at the 10th Mid-Atlantic Colloquium of Studies in Meaning (MACSIM), University of Maryland, College Park.

- **Vurgun, U.**, Cho, S., Fusaroli, R., Ip, M. H. K., Pelella, M. R., Knox, A., Schillinger, S., Hauptmann, A., Covello, M., Madya, M., Lyons, M., Lee, A., Fulop, L., Adeniyi, H., Russell, A., Hicks, G., Anello, O., Walker, K., Fiumara, J., Tunç, B., Sariyanidi, E., Liberman, M., Schultz, R. T., & Parish-Morris, J. (2024). Detecting Autism through Automated Speech Analysis: The Role of Model Complexity and Dataset Balance. Poster presentation at the International Society for Autism Research Annual Meeting, Melbourne, Australia.

- Kaviyarasu, A., **Vurgun, U.**, Hwang, S., Acevedo, A., Mowery, D. L., Abella, B. S., & Mitchell, O. J. L. (2024). Leveraging large language models to optimize clinical text analysis for in-hospital cardiac arrest identification. Poster presented at the Department of Medicine Research Day, University of Pennsylvania.

- Cho, S., **Vurgun, U.**, Fusaroli, R., Ip, M. H. K., Pelella, M. R., Knox, A., Hauptmann, A., Covello, M., Madya, M., Lyons, M., Lee, A., Fulop, L., Schillinger, S., Russell, A., Hicks, G., Walker, K., Fiumara, J., Chatham, C., Liberman, M., Schultz, R. T., & Parish-Morris, J. (2024). Stable Acoustic Differences between Autistic and Neurotypical Children: A Longitudinal Telephony Study. Oral presentation at the International Society for Autism Research Annual Meeting, Melbourne, Australia.

- Cho, S., **Vurgun, U.**, Fusaroli, R., Ip, M. H. K., Pelella, M. R., Knox, A., Hauptmann, A., Covello, M., Madya, M., Lyons, M., Lee, A., Fulop, L., Russell, A., Hicks, G., Fiumara, J., Pandey, J., Tunç, B., Sariyanidi, E., Liberman, M., Schultz, R. T., & Parish-Morris, J. (2024). Automatically-derived Lexical Features Distinguish Autistic Teens from Neurotypical Peers and Teens with Other Psychiatric Conditions in a Natural Conversation Task. Oral presentation at the International Society for Autism Research Annual Meeting, Melbourne, Australia.

- Ip, Martin H. K., Putnam, O., Cho, S., **Vurgun, U.**, Lyons, M., Knox, A., Hauptmann, A., Covello, M., Madya, M., Adeniyi, H., Hicks, G., Anello, O., Walker, K., Fiumara, J., Cieri, C., Fusaroli, R., Chatham, C., Liberman, M., Schultz, R. T., Parish-Morris, J. (2024). Prosodic similarities and variation in autistic and neurotypical children: A telephone-based study of verbal counting. Oral presentation at the International Society for Autism Research Annual Meeting, Melbourne, Australia.

- **Vurgun, U.**, Cho, S., Fusaroli, R., Ip, M. H. K., Pelella, M. R., Knox, A., Hauptmann, A., Covello, M., Madya, M., Lyons, M., Lee, A., Schillinger, S., Fulop, L., Adeniyi, H., Russell, A., Fiumara, J., Hicks, G., Anello, O., Walker, K., Tunç, B., Sariyanidi, E., Liberman, M., Schultz, R. T., & Parish-Morris, J. (2024). Automatic classification of autism using automatic speech recognition and large language models (LLMs). Poster presentation at Meeting on Language and Autism, Durham, NC.

- Cho, S., **Vurgun, U.**, Fusaroli, R., Ip, M. H. K., Pelella, M.R., Knox, A., Hauptmann, A., Covello, M., Madya, M., Lyons, M., Lee, A., Schillinger, S., Fulop, L., Russell, A., Hicks, G., Fiumara, J., Pandey, J., Tunç, B., Sariyanidi, V., Liberman, M., Schultz, R. T., & Parish-Morris, J. (2024). Autistic teens’ word choice differs from neurotypical peers and teens with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in a natural conversation task. Poster presentation at Meeting on Language and Autism, Durham, NC.

- Ip, M. H. K., Putnam, O. C., Cho, S., **Vurgun, U.**, Lyons, M., Knox, A., Hauptmann, A., Covello, M., Fulop, L., Russell, A., Walker, K., Miller, J., Fiumara, J., Fusaroli, R., Chatham, C., Cieri, C., Lee, A., Liberman, M., Schultz, R. T., & Parish-Morris, J. (2024). Does speech prosody differ in a socially unengaging task? Preliminary findings from autistic and non-autistic children’s verbal counting. Poster presentation at Meeting on Language in Autism, Durham, NC.

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2023). Aspectual processing and event perception. Poster presentation at the 36th Annual Conference on Human Sentence Processing, University of Pittsburgh.

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2023). Lexical aspect maps onto event apprehension. Poster presentation at the 9th Mid-Atlantic Colloquium of Studies in Meaning (MACSIM), University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2023). Aspectual framing of events shifts online event apprehension. Poster presentation at at the 98th Annual Meeting of the Linguistic Society of America, Denver, CO.

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2022). Lexical aspect maps onto event apprehension. Oral presentation at the 2nd Experiments in Linguistic Meaning Conference, University of Pennsylvania.

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2022). Linguistic aspect constrains event apprehension. Poster presentation at the 44th Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society, Toronto, Canada.

- **Vurgun, U.** (2020). Both locative alternation variants in Turkish are change-of-state predicates with ResultPs. Oral presentation at the 4th Conference of Central Asian Language and Linguistics, Indiana University.

- **Vurgun, U.** (2019). A lexical-typological approach explaining the limited existence of locative alternation in Turkish. Poster presentation at the 4th Workshop on Turkic and Languages in Contact with Turkic (Tu+4), NYU.

## **Fellowships and Awards**
    
- Simons Foundation Autism Research Initiative (SFARI) Travel Award for Meeting on Language in Autism (MoLA) [2024].
- The 48th Annual Boston University Conference On Language Development, Diversity Travel Award [2023].
- University of Pennsylvania, Language and Communication Sciences Research Fund [2021, 2022, 2023].
- University of Pennsylvania, Integrated Language Sciences and Technology Research Fund [2022, 2023, 2024].
- University of Pennsylvania, GAPSA Research Travel Grant [2022].
- University of Pennsylvania, SAS Dean's Travel Subvention [2022].
- University of Pennsylvania, Benjamin Franklin Fellowship [2019-2024].
- Boğaziçi University, Research Travel Grant [2019].
- Koç University, Vehbi Koç Fellowship [2002-2007].

## **Reviewing**

- Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL Rolling Review)
- JACC: CardioOncology (Journal of the American College of Cardiology (JACC))
- Journal of Clinical and Translational Science
- Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing
- AI and Machine Learning in Clinical Medicine:​​ Bridging or Separating Model Intelligence and Human Expertise (Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing)
- BioData Mining
- American Psychological Association (APA)
- The Annual Conference of Cognitive Science Society (CogSci)
- Annual Conference of the Society for Human Sentence Processing (HSP)
- Folia Linguistica


<br/>

<div style="text-align:center;">
    <img src="/assets/images/picture2.jpg" alt="my research" style="width:250px;height:250px; border:3px solid black">
</div>

Commit message:

Add Psycho-Oncology journal to reviewing list

_pages/research.md, after:

---
title: Research
layout: single
author_profile: true
permalink: /research/
collection: research
entries_layout: grid
classes: wide
---

## Publications

-  **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2024). Aspectual processing shifts visual event apprehension. *Cognitive Science, 48*(6), e13476. [https://doi.org/10.1111/cogs.13476](https://doi.org/10.1111/cogs.13476)

- Li, C., Mowery, D. L., Ma, X., Yang, R., **Vurgun, U.**, Hwang, S., Donnelly, H. K., Bandhey, H., Akhtar, Z., Senathirajah, Y., Sadhu, E. M., Getzen, E., Freda, P. J., Long, Q., Becich, M. J. (2024). Realizing the potential of social determinants data: A scoping review of approaches for screening, linkage, extraction, analysis, and interventions. *Journal of Clinical and Translational Science*.

- **Vurgun, U.** (2019). <a href="/assets/images/Vurgun_2019_FocusParticles_TR.pdf">The syntax of focus particles in Turkish</a>. Unpublished master's thesis, Boğaziçi University. Advisors: Dr. H. Mine Nakipoğlu & Dr. A. Sumru Özsoy.

- **Vurgun, U.** (2018). <a href="/assets/images/bookreview.pdf">Book review</a> - Contemporary Morphological Theories: A User’s Guide. Thomas W. Stewart, 2015. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press. 192 pages. ISBN 978 07 486 9268 2. *Journal of Linguistic Research*, 29(2), 129-137.

## Conference Proceedings

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2025).  Mapping between telicity and event representations. Proceedings from the 47th Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society. 

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2024).  Detecting event construal shifts in aspectual coercion. Proceedings from the 46th Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society. 

- **Vurgun, U.**, Heesu, Y., Landau, B., & Trueswell, J. (2024).  Real-time processing of symmetrical predicates: Semantic categorization over time. Proceedings from the 46th Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society. 

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2023).  Cognitive signatures of aspectual coercion. Proceedings from the 45th Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society. 

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2022).  Linguistic aspect constrains event apprehension. Proceedings from the 44th Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society. 

## Presentations

-  Ketchem, C. J., **Vurgun, U.**, Wang, A., Thomas, S., Batugo, A., Falk, G. W., Lynch, K. L., Dellon, E. S., Mowery, D. L., & Lewis, J. D. (2025). Large language models combined with a single diagnostic code detect eosinophilic esophagitis in electronic health records with high accuracy. *American Journal of Gastroenterology*, Abstract P2739. Presented at the American College of Gastroenterology Annual Scientific Meeting, Phoenix, AZ.

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2025). Mapping between telicity and event representations. Poster presentation at the 47th Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society, San Francisco, California. 

-  **Vurgun, U.**, Cho, S., Fusaroli, R., Pelella, M. R., Knox, A., Hauptmann, A., Covello, M., Madya, M., Lyons, M., Lee, A., Fulop, L., Russell, A., Hicks, G., Fiumara, J., Pandey, J., Tunç, B., Sariyanidi, E., Liberman, M., Schultz, R. T., & Parish-Morris, J. (May, 2025). Sex-Specific Clustering in Autism: Implications for Female Identification and Assessment. Poster presentation at International Society for Autism Research Annual Meeting (INSAR 2025), Seattle, Washington.

-  Cho, S., **Vurgun, U.**, Fusaroli, R., Pelella, M. R., Knox, A., Hauptmann, A., Covello, M., Madya, M., Lyons, M., Lee, A., Fulop, L., Russell, A., Hicks, G., Fiumara, J., Pandey, J., Tunç, B., Sariyanidi, E., Liberman, M., Schultz, R. T., & Parish-Morris, J. (May, 2025). "Taking the temperature" of natural conversations in Autism plus ADHD: a trans diagnostic sentiment analysis. Poster presentation at International Society for Autism Research Annual Meeting (INSAR 2025), Seattle, Washington. 

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2025). (A)telic Diversity: Evidence from a Novel Meaning Categorization Task. Poster presentation at the 38th Annual Conference on Human Sentence Processing, University of Maryland, College Park, USA.

- **Vurgun, U.**, Kaviyarasu, A., Hwang, S., Acevedo, A., Abella, B. S., Mitchell, O., & Mowery, D. L. (2024). Reliability in AI-assisted critical care: Assessing large language model robustness and instruction following for cardiac arrest identification. AIM-FM: Advancements In Medical Foundation Models: Explainability, Robustness, Security, and Beyond Workshop. 38th Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS 2024).

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2024).  Detecting event construal shifts in aspectual coercion. Oral presentation at the 46th Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society, Rotterdam, Netherlands. 

- **Vurgun, U.**, Heesu, Y., Landau, B., & Trueswell, J. (2024).  Real-time processing of symmetrical predicates: Semantic categorization over time. Poster presentation at the 46th Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society, Rotterdam, Netherlands. 

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2024). Aspectual Coercion: A New Method to Probe Aspectual Commitments. Oral presentation at the Experiments in Linguistic Meaning (ELM) Conference, University of Pennsylvania.

- Kaviyarasu, A., **Vurgun, U.**, Hwang, S., Acevedo, A., Mowery, D. L., Abella, B. S., & Mitchell, O. J. L. (2024). Leveraging large language models to optimize clinical text analysis for in-hospital cardiac arrest identification. Poster presentation at the Department of Medicine Research Day, University of Pennsylvania.

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2024). Aspectual Coercion: A New Method to Probe Aspectual Commitments. Poster presentation at the 37th Annual Conference on Human Sentence Processing, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.

- **Vurgun, U.**, Yun, H., Landau, B., & Trueswell, J. (2024). Symmetrical or not?: A new method to probe real-time semantic categorization. Poster presentation at the 37th Annual Conference on Human Sentence Processing, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2024). Cognitive signatures of aspectual coercion. Poster presentation at the 10th Mid-Atlantic Colloquium of Studies in Meaning (MACSIM), University of Maryland, College Park.

- **Vurgun, U.**, Cho, S., Fusaroli, R., Ip, M. H. K., Pelella, M. R., Knox, A., Schillinger, S., Hauptmann, A., Covello, M., Madya, M., Lyons, M., Lee, A., Fulop, L., Adeniyi, H., Russell, A., Hicks, G., Anello, O., Walker, K., Fiumara, J., Tunç, B., Sariyanidi, E., Liberman, M., Schultz, R. T., & Parish-Morris, J. (2024). Detecting Autism through Automated Speech Analysis: The Role of Model Complexity and Dataset Balance. Poster presentation at the International Society for Autism Research Annual Meeting, Melbourne, Australia.

- Kaviyarasu, A., **Vurgun, U.**, Hwang, S., Acevedo, A., Mowery, D. L., Abella, B. S., & Mitchell, O. J. L. (2024). Leveraging large language models to optimize clinical text analysis for in-hospital cardiac arrest identification. Poster presented at the Department of Medicine Research Day, University of Pennsylvania.

- Cho, S., **Vurgun, U.**, Fusaroli, R., Ip, M. H. K., Pelella, M. R., Knox, A., Hauptmann, A., Covello, M., Madya, M., Lyons, M., Lee, A., Fulop, L., Schillinger, S., Russell, A., Hicks, G., Walker, K., Fiumara, J., Chatham, C., Liberman, M., Schultz, R. T., & Parish-Morris, J. (2024). Stable Acoustic Differences between Autistic and Neurotypical Children: A Longitudinal Telephony Study. Oral presentation at the International Society for Autism Research Annual Meeting, Melbourne, Australia.

- Cho, S., **Vurgun, U.**, Fusaroli, R., Ip, M. H. K., Pelella, M. R., Knox, A., Hauptmann, A., Covello, M., Madya, M., Lyons, M., Lee, A., Fulop, L., Russell, A., Hicks, G., Fiumara, J., Pandey, J., Tunç, B., Sariyanidi, E., Liberman, M., Schultz, R. T., & Parish-Morris, J. (2024). Automatically-derived Lexical Features Distinguish Autistic Teens from Neurotypical Peers and Teens with Other Psychiatric Conditions in a Natural Conversation Task. Oral presentation at the International Society for Autism Research Annual Meeting, Melbourne, Australia.

- Ip, Martin H. K., Putnam, O., Cho, S., **Vurgun, U.**, Lyons, M., Knox, A., Hauptmann, A., Covello, M., Madya, M., Adeniyi, H., Hicks, G., Anello, O., Walker, K., Fiumara, J., Cieri, C., Fusaroli, R., Chatham, C., Liberman, M., Schultz, R. T., Parish-Morris, J. (2024). Prosodic similarities and variation in autistic and neurotypical children: A telephone-based study of verbal counting. Oral presentation at the International Society for Autism Research Annual Meeting, Melbourne, Australia.

- **Vurgun, U.**, Cho, S., Fusaroli, R., Ip, M. H. K., Pelella, M. R., Knox, A., Hauptmann, A., Covello, M., Madya, M., Lyons, M., Lee, A., Schillinger, S., Fulop, L., Adeniyi, H., Russell, A., Fiumara, J., Hicks, G., Anello, O., Walker, K., Tunç, B., Sariyanidi, E., Liberman, M., Schultz, R. T., & Parish-Morris, J. (2024). Automatic classification of autism using automatic speech recognition and large language models (LLMs). Poster presentation at Meeting on Language and Autism, Durham, NC.

- Cho, S., **Vurgun, U.**, Fusaroli, R., Ip, M. H. K., Pelella, M.R., Knox, A., Hauptmann, A., Covello, M., Madya, M., Lyons, M., Lee, A., Schillinger, S., Fulop, L., Russell, A., Hicks, G., Fiumara, J., Pandey, J., Tunç, B., Sariyanidi, V., Liberman, M., Schultz, R. T., & Parish-Morris, J. (2024). Autistic teens’ word choice differs from neurotypical peers and teens with attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in a natural conversation task. Poster presentation at Meeting on Language and Autism, Durham, NC.

- Ip, M. H. K., Putnam, O. C., Cho, S., **Vurgun, U.**, Lyons, M., Knox, A., Hauptmann, A., Covello, M., Fulop, L., Russell, A., Walker, K., Miller, J., Fiumara, J., Fusaroli, R., Chatham, C., Cieri, C., Lee, A., Liberman, M., Schultz, R. T., & Parish-Morris, J. (2024). Does speech prosody differ in a socially unengaging task? Preliminary findings from autistic and non-autistic children’s verbal counting. Poster presentation at Meeting on Language in Autism, Durham, NC.

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2023). Aspectual processing and event perception. Poster presentation at the 36th Annual Conference on Human Sentence Processing, University of Pittsburgh.

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2023). Lexical aspect maps onto event apprehension. Poster presentation at the 9th Mid-Atlantic Colloquium of Studies in Meaning (MACSIM), University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2023). Aspectual framing of events shifts online event apprehension. Poster presentation at at the 98th Annual Meeting of the Linguistic Society of America, Denver, CO.

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2022). Lexical aspect maps onto event apprehension. Oral presentation at the 2nd Experiments in Linguistic Meaning Conference, University of Pennsylvania.

- **Vurgun, U.**, Ji, Y., & Papafragou, A. (2022). Linguistic aspect constrains event apprehension. Poster presentation at the 44th Annual Meeting of the Cognitive Science Society, Toronto, Canada.

- **Vurgun, U.** (2020). Both locative alternation variants in Turkish are change-of-state predicates with ResultPs. Oral presentation at the 4th Conference of Central Asian Language and Linguistics, Indiana University.

- **Vurgun, U.** (2019). A lexical-typological approach explaining the limited existence of locative alternation in Turkish. Poster presentation at the 4th Workshop on Turkic and Languages in Contact with Turkic (Tu+4), NYU.

## **Fellowships and Awards**
    
- Simons Foundation Autism Research Initiative (SFARI) Travel Award for Meeting on Language in Autism (MoLA) [2024].
- The 48th Annual Boston University Conference On Language Development, Diversity Travel Award [2023].
- University of Pennsylvania, Language and Communication Sciences Research Fund [2021, 2022, 2023].
- University of Pennsylvania, Integrated Language Sciences and Technology Research Fund [2022, 2023, 2024].
- University of Pennsylvania, GAPSA Research Travel Grant [2022].
- University of Pennsylvania, SAS Dean's Travel Subvention [2022].
- University of Pennsylvania, Benjamin Franklin Fellowship [2019-2024].
- Boğaziçi University, Research Travel Grant [2019].
- Koç University, Vehbi Koç Fellowship [2002-2007].

## **Reviewing**

- Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL Rolling Review)
- JACC: CardioOncology (Journal of the American College of Cardiology (JACC))
- Psycho-Oncology: Journal of the Psychological, Social and Behavioral Dimensions of Cancer
- Journal of Clinical and Translational Science
- Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing
- AI and Machine Learning in Clinical Medicine:​​ Bridging or Separating Model Intelligence and Human Expertise (Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing)
- BioData Mining
- American Psychological Association (APA)
- The Annual Conference of Cognitive Science Society (CogSci)
- Annual Conference of the Society for Human Sentence Processing (HSP)
- Folia Linguistica


<br/>

<div style="text-align:center;">
    <img src="/assets/images/picture2.jpg" alt="my research" style="width:250px;height:250px; border:3px solid black">
</div>
