---
layout: single
title:  "Annual Conference on Human Sentence Processing (HSP) 2024"
permalink: /HSP2024/
---

## Aspectual Coercion: A New Method to Probe Aspectual Commitments

At the upcoming HSP 2024 conference, I will present a poster on "Aspectual Coercion: A New Method to Probe Aspectual Commitments," a collaborative work with Yue Ji and Anna Papafragou. This study explores how aspectual coercion, where mismatched aspectual elements in sentences necessitate realignment of temporal expectations, influences cognitive event understanding. Using a novel interruption detection paradigm, we reveal how coerced and non-coerced sentences impact visual event perception. Our findings show that aspectual sentences, including coerced ones, affect how events are construed as bounded or unbounded. This research offers a direct approach to understanding aspectual commitments in semantics.

## Symmetrical Or Not?: A New Method To Probe Real-Time Semantic Categorization

I will also present a poster titled "Symmetrical Or Not?: A New Method To Probe Real-Time Semantic Categorization," in collaboration with Heesu Yun, Barbara Landau, and John Trueswell. This study investigates how syntax and lexical semantics contribute to the interpretation of symmetry in language using a novel eye-tracking method. Our findings demonstrate that while syntax primarily guides initial interpretations of symmetry, lexical semantics also plays a significant role, especially in transitive constructions. This research provides insights into the interplay between syntax and semantics and offers a new approach to examining real-time interpretations of abstract semantic categories.
